The origin of rugby football is reported to be an incident during a game of English 
school football at Rugby School in Warwickshire in 1823, when William Webb Ellis is said 
to have picked up the ball and run with it.[8] Although the story may well be apocryphal, 
it was immortalised at the school with a commemorative plaque that was unveiled in 1895,
[9][10] and the Rugby World Cup trophy is named after Webb Ellis. Rugby football stems 
from the form of the game played at Rugby School, which former pupils then introduced to 
their universities. Former Rugby School student Albert Pell is credited with having 
formed the first "football" team while a student at Cambridge University.[11] Major 
private schools each used different rules during this early period, with former pupils 
from Rugby and Eton attempting to carry their preferred rules through to their 
universities.[12] A significant event in the early development of rugby football was the 
production of a written set of rules at Rugby School in 1845,[13][14] followed by the 
Cambridge Rules that were drawn up in 1848.[15] Formed in 1863, the national governing 
body The Football Association (FA) began codifying a set of universal football rules. 
These new rules specifically banned players from running with the ball in hand and also 
disallowed hacking (kicking players in the shins), both of which were legal and common 
tactics under the Rugby School's rules of the sport. In protest at the imposition of the 
new rules, the Blackheath Club left the FA[16][17] followed by several other clubs that 
also favoured the "Rugby Rules". Although these clubs decided to ban hacking soon 
afterwards, the split was permanent, and the FA's codified rules became known as 
"association football" whilst the clubs that had favoured the Rugby Rules formed the 
Rugby Football Union in 1871,[16] and their code became known as "rugby football". 
In 1895, there was a major schism within rugby football in England in which numerous 
clubs from Northern England resigned from the RFU over the issue of reimbursing players 
for time lost from their workplaces. The split highlighted the social and class 
divisions in the sport in England, and led directly to the creation of the separate code 
of "rugby league". The existing sport thereafter took on the name "rugby union" to 
differentiate it from rugby league,[18] but both versions of the sport are known simply 
as "rugby" throughout most of the world.[19]